+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
+                                                                           +
+   Copyright (C) 2011                                 James D. Mitchell    +
+                                                                           +
+   'Citrus' is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify        +
+   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by    +
+   the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the license, or       +
+   (at your option) any later version. For details see the FSF's own site  +
+   http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html                                    +
+                                                                           +
+   'Citrus' is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,             +
+   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of          +
+   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the           +
+   GNU General Public License for more details.                            +
+                                                                           +
+   You can find information about how to contact the authors of this       +
+   package at the end of the README file and on the front page of the      +
+   documentation.                                                          +
+                                                                           +
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

       This is the 
                   README
                   ======
                          file for the
                                       GAP 4.5
                                       =======
                                               package
                                                       'Citrus'.
                                                       ===========
  
This  is  the  README  for the Citrus package version 0.4 for computing with
transformation  semigroups. Citrus 0.4 is an updated and expanded version of
the Monoid package for GAP 3 (http://schmidt.nuigalway.ie/monoid/index.html)
by  Goetz Pfeiffer, Steve A. Linton, Edmund F. Robertson, and Nik Ruskuc and
the           Monoid           package           for          GAP          4
(http://www-history.mcs.st-and.ac.uk/~jamesm/monoid/index.html)   by  J.  D.
Mitchell.

The  functionality  of Monoid 3.1.4 for GAP 4 has been split between the GAP
4.5            packages            Citrus            and            Comatose
(http://www-history.mcs.st-and.ac.uk/~jamesm/comatose/index.html).  Citrus 0.4
retains all the functionality of the original Monoid package for GAP 3; and
many  of  those  functions  from  Monoid  3.1.4  not  involved  in  the
computation   of   automorphism   groups   of   semigroups.   The   Comatose
(http://www-history.mcs.st-and.ac.uk/~jamesm/comatose/index.html)    package
retains  those  functions  from  Monoid  3.1.4  used to compute automorphism
groups of transformation semigroups.

Citrus  0.4  contains more efficient methods than those available in the GAP
library  (and  in  many  cases  more  efficient  than any other software for
computing   with  transformation  semigroups)  for  creating  transformation
semigroups, calculating its Green's classes, size, elements, group of units,
minimal  ideal,  and  testing  membership, finding the inverses of a regular
element,  and  factorizing  elements over the generators, and many more.
There  are  also  methods for  testing if a semigroup satisfies  a particular
property, such as if it is regular, simple, inverse, completely  regular,  and
a variety of further properties. A range  of functions  is provided for
creating and determining properties of individual transformations  such  as
the  index and  period  or the least idempotent power. A large catalogue of
examples is provided.  Citrus  also  provides abbreviated names for many of the
commonly  used GAP library functions related to semigroups, and functions to
read  and  write large  collections  of transformations  to  a  file;  see
ReadCitrus (1.6-1) and WriteCitrus (1.6-2).

The  Citrus  package  is  written  in  GAP  code only but requires the Orb (
http://www-groups.mcs.st-and.ac.uk/~neunhoef/Computer/Software/Gap/orb.html)
package.   The  Orb  package  is  used  to  efficiently  compute  orbits  in
transformation semigroups and these methods underpin most of the features of
Citrus.

Citrus  is still under development, and so some features may not function as
expected. At the present time, I do not know of any errors or serious issues
with Citrus. If you find a bug or an issue with the package, then please let
me know by emailing me the details at: jdm3@st-and.ac.uk.

For more details about semigroups in GAP or Green's relations in particular,
see the Citrus package manual.

Getting Citrus
--------------

You can download the package from:

http://www-history.mcs.st-and.ac.uk/~jamesm/citrus/index.html 

in .tar.gz format.

Contents
--------

The `citrus-0.4' folder containing this README.txt file should contain the
directories and files: CHANGELOG, PackageInfo.g, README, VERSIONS, doc,
examples, gap, init.g, read.g, tst.

Installation
------------

If you have any problems getting Citrus working, then you could try emailing
me at: jdm3@st-and.ac.uk.
  
It is assumed that you have a working copy of GAP with version number 4.5 or
higher.  The  most  up-to-date  version  of  GAP  and instructions on how to
install it can be obtained from the main GAP webpage
  
  http://www.gap-system.org
  
The  following  is  a  summary of the steps that should lead to a successful
installation of Citrus:

•    download  and  install the Orb package version 3.8 or higher. For more
     details go to:

  http://www-groups.mcs.st-and.ac.uk/~neunhoef/Computer/Software/Gap/orb.html

      Note that Orb and Citrus both perform better if Orb is compiled.

 •    download the package archive citrus-0.4.tar.gz from

      http://www-history.mcs.st-and.ac.uk/~jamesm/citrus/index.html

 •    unzip  and  untar  the  file,  this  should  create a directory called
      citrus-0.4.

 •    locate  the  pkg  directory  of your GAP directory, which contains the
      directories lib, doc and so on. Move the directory citrus-0.4 into the
      pkg directory.

 •    start GAP in the usual way.

 •    type LoadPackage("citrus");

 •    compile the documentation by using CitrusMakeDoc (1.2-1)

Below is an example of an installation of Citrus in a UNIX environment where
GAPROOT  should  be  substituted  with  the  main  GAP  directory  (the  one
containing the folders bin, lib, and so on) in your installation of GAP.

────────────────────────────────  Example  ─────────────────────────────────
  > gunzip citrus-0.4.tar.gz 
  > tar -xf citrus-0.4.tar 
  > mv citrus-0.4 GAPROOT/pkg
  > gap 
  
  [ ... ]
  
  gap> LoadPackage("citrus");
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Loading  orb 3.8 (orb - Methods to enumerate orbits)
  by Juergen Mueller (http://www.math.rwth-aachen.de/~Juergen.Mueller),
     Max Neunhoeffer (http://www-groups.mcs.st-and.ac.uk/~neunhoef), and
     Felix Noeske (http://www.math.rwth-aachen.de/~Felix.Noeske).
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Loading  Citrus 0.4 (Citrus - ComputIng with TransfoRmation semigrUopS)
  by J. D. Mitchell (http://tinyurl.com/jdmitchell).
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  true
  gap>
────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Compiling the documentation
---------------------------
  
To  compile  the documentation use the function CitrusMakeDoc after starting
GAP and loading Citrus. If you want to use the help system, it is essential
that you compile the documentation.

Further Information
-------------------

If you use the Citrus package, I'd be interested to know about it
(jdm3@st-and.ac.uk).  

James Mitchell, St Andrews, 6th of January 2012.
